# College Football Data Analysis with AI

## Overview
The project was developed through utilizing Flask, OpenAI and numerous API requests to analyze a college football team
in a specific year based on user input. A user is able to input their chosen team and year to obtain data metrics 
that they can use to understand player and team performance. The user through providing their input, can retain info on the top
5 players with the highest usage rate on that user provided team and season. Each player within the top 5 usage rate list will
include info on their predicted points added, stats and the overall team record will be displayed as well. To ensure the user is left with even more insight on their chosen team and season, a chatgpt analysis is provided based on the user chosen team's
performance in that user chosen year.

## Features
-**Top 5 players by usage rate**: The top 5 players with the highest usage rates for the user chosen team display how often a player is put to work offensively

-**Predicted Points Added**: Points that the player is predicted to add per offensive snap

-**Stats**: Yd and td stats in a statistical category based on player postion that allow the user to visualize how a player's usage rate affects their stats

-**Team Record**: A record of the user chosen team in the user chosen season

-**ChatGPT Analysis**: A performance review provided by chatgpt on the user chosen team and year.

-**Concurrent API Requests**: A faster and more efficent api request tactic to grab user data

-**Interactive Web Interface**: A web interface formed by flask that enables users to submit requests and to quickly retrieve insightful responses

## Installation

### Prerequisites
Ensure that Python 3 is installed and that pip is open to use as well.
A personal CFBD(CollegeFootballData.com) api key and OpenAI api key are needed as well.


### Steps
1) **Clone the Repository and Navigate to Directory**:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/dyl-23/College_Football_Data_Analysis_with_AI.git
cd College_Football_Data_Analysis_with_AI
```

2) **Create and Start Virtual Environment**:
```bash
On Mac-
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

On Windows-
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

3) **Install Dependencies**:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4) **Construct .env file**:
```bash
CFBD_API_KEY = your_college_football_data_api_key
OPENAI_API_KEY = your_openai_api_key
```

5) **Run app.py file**:
```bash
python app.py
```

6) **Open Web Browser**:
Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000

### Usage
1)  Pick a division 1 college football team and year(between 2014-2023)
2) Observe the stats of the top 5 players on the team with the highest usage rate, look at team record and
learn more about the chosen team in the chosen year from the content generated by the OpenAI model.

## Acknowledgements
Thank you to CollegeFootballData.com for the in depth data

Thank you to OpenAI for the language model integration


